# Sorcery

## The Artificials

Fundamentally, all human sorcery is based on a sensitivity to what the Schola call Anolasse, The Single Dream. Some view this as a sort of alam al mithal, a parallel realm without connections. Held in contrast to Antumnasse, the Deep. The Deep is the void that cannot be known, a depth where meaning cannot penetrate, out of which those things which defy all understanding arise. 

all sorcerers worthy of the name, those we’ve classified as “artificial” or synthetic, understand that there is a shared mechanism at work. the naturals lack this understanding. their power is primarily that of breeding, of ritual. For those who train, dealing with some version of what the nature of the EM/UC is is necessary. There are two synthetic human sorcerous orders: Schola Orubora and the Bene Halaboris. Both arose from similar circumstances. Both had Himadhaman caretakers that refused to sacrifice their personal views and join the Jat Vayhar during the diaspora following the death of the Apostate. The differences between them arose from how these two groups solved the problem of the Ban. Before allowing them into the redoubts, the Jat forced these “recreants” to submit to a powerful telepathic conditioning that prevented them from transmitting the holy language to their charges. Additionally, they were sterilized to prevent future abuse of their advanced bloodlines. Despite these efforts, both groups strove for continuity beyond their (admittedly far off, thanks to said bloodlines) deaths, and discovered very different methods. 

### The Schola
For the Cúilingolëmo, it was not their selves they wished to preserve, but their ideas. They had prided themselves on their research, on the rigorousness of their investigations into the esoteric nature of the world of which the Himadhaman alone were truly aware. They did not wish to see it die, so they did the natural thing. They selected a language, more or less at random, that none of them were natural speakers of, modified it to be able to address all the complex, technical topics they wanted to address, then each went off into his own studies. When the trees awoke and their children appeared, they had had ample time to prepare. They taught all the children this new language, and each had his or her own circle of students to pass on their ideas to. Their truly great feat, however, was to subvert a process that they had observed shortly before, and more frequently after, the Apostate’s death. Consistency trumped Certainty. Whatever it was that translated a sorcerer’s message into an instruction had to be “primed” to handle the incoming data, but otherwise one method worked just as well as the next. The only thing that did seem to matter was that the more accurate the meaning was to the caster, the more precise and subtle the “spell”, the more effective it was. Unfortunately the fractiousness that prevented them from accepting the Jat also meant they couldn’t agree on a single “figurehead” for their system, so each subgroup came up with its own. The result was a sort of new pantheon, each with its own brand of sorcery. These were not gods, per se, but rather ideological paragons. They were a visual and conceptual focal point for the schools of thought they represented. 

Today, a few of these have vanished, and a few new ones have arisen. Additionally, as is probably not surprising, a legitimate (if misguided, according to most members of the schools) religion has risen up around them, mainly amongst the lay folk of the City. Today, it is believed that the schools were founded by survivors of the last World, and instead of dying they used their profound abilities, once they had imparted their knowledge, to step into the Anolasse, there to supervise their schools from the next world. 

#### Schola Sorcery
Trying to speak about the sorcery of the schools as a whole is a somewhat disingenuous endeavor, as they really are not branches on a single tree so much as a forrest of trees sprung from the same ancestor. However, we can speak broadly about that ancestor. The Cúilingolëmo described themselves as magical theorists. They were fixated, fanatical even, about understanding the nature of esoteric laws that they viewed as their inheritance. Where the Jat worshipped the ancient pre-literate worldview derived from said laws, they wanted the laws themselves. They believed themselves to be scientists and philosophers to the Jat’s shamans and priests. 

Consequently, as their generations of labor began to bear fruit, all the schools regardless of their particular interest shared some basic methods and philosophies. For the schools, the parameters of a law were more interesting than its application. That all changed, however, with the War. Suddenly there was no time for metaphysical navel-gazing. If it did not feed a soldier, equip a soldier, or kill a bathic it was a waste of energy. For 75 years, three entire generations (more, in many places), every ounce of industry that was marshallable by Man was turned to the war effort, and the schools were no exception. Much of the pure research was not just put aside, but outright abandoned as pointless luxury. 

After the terrible winnowing of the War, the schools again went their own ways, and today they display an impressive breadth of specialties, but all of them share some basic concepts. They all involve the manipulation of fundamental forces. 
 
### The Halaboris 
Where the Schola founders were fixated on immortality through their ideas, those of the Halaboris has more personal aspirations. Though they possessed the biological heritage that allowed them to attain very great longevity and were without a hostile society to make using it impossible, they desired legitimate and real immortality. 

A century of wasted effort, and the premature death of a few in vain attempts, showed that real biological immortality was, for now and for whatever reason, beyond them. Additionally, the terrifyingly advanced clonic technology that made the Trees possible was far beyond their understanding, even if the Ban had not made it impossible for them to tamper with it. With time running out (relatively speaking) they turned to alternative methods of preservation. Though it had been inconsistent in the first few decades following the Rending, it became clear early on to these former Himadhaman that the nature of the world had changed, and they believed that it would be possible to use those changes to achieve their goals. They were also, however, materialists, in the sense that they did not have confidence that there was any kind of soul with which to work with. The most they could bring themselves to allow for was a concept of process self. They came to view selfhood as the combination of identity, memory, and biology, and eventually set upon the idea that if they could not preserve the body they might be able to find a way to transfer the other two aspects. This had been an avenue that the Himadhaman had done some work in many years prior, so it was from this that they began their work. 

MORE STUFF

What the Halaboris tutored failed to account for was that the people of the trees would not, in the very strictest sense, be human. having no knowledge of the subtle alterations made at the Lady’s command, when they attempted transmission something unexpected happened. Not knowing that the vector they had chosen was not dissimilar from the usual possession mechanic used by the bathics, the incoming persona was deflected. When those Tutors who had not undergone the ritual realized that it had not worked as they intended, they began a frantic investigation to try and recover anything they could of their fellows. The minds, they found, were gone but they were able to recognize the memories of their former companions encysted into the collective unconscious that they had used to power the ritual. They could access those memories, but they found that their students, the new humans, could not, without being driven mad, another unforeseen side-effect of the subtle differences in their mental architecture. Not wanting those memories lost for all time, they eventually constructed what would come to be called “halabor”, a medium through which the new people could access the ancestral memories of their Tutors. As they slowly embraced their new circumstances, they even revised their original ritual to make the “encysting” process work on the new Men, so that the brightest of their students might join their masters in advising the future generations. 

Even with the halabor mediating the contact between the Men and the ancestral memory, it was an overwhelming process, and over time their selection criteria became more selective. Initially, these individuals were historians and advisors, sages that were consulted by leaders. Unlike the Schola tutors, sorcery had not been their principal aim, so it was not until several generations after the last of the tutors had “gone into the WORD” that it was discovered that besides granting access to the ancestral memories, the halabors also enabled a limited sorcery. Over time, as the founders and then their students went in, this limited scope expanded. 

Unlike the schools, there halabors are a single “continuum” of study when it comes to sorcery. There are also fewer of them, as the selection process continues to get more intense as the weight of the ancestral memory increases. Some believe that a critical threshold is being approached, after which there will be too much for any human to handle. 

#### Halaboric Sorcery

The sorcery of the book, as its called, is generally considered less profound but more practical than the various branches of the schola. Its origins were in problem solving, and as such its less focused on abstract concepts as it is in useful effects. Additionally, their sorcery didn’t emerge until after the Reclamation, thus they never experienced the terrible pressures that helped shape the Schools. Transmutation, transportation, translation, prognostication and healing are its more typical applications. 

### The Sidrigati

The origin of the unique sidrigati brand of sorcery is tied directly into the people’s enslavement. They were intended to be used as a part of the infrastructure to awaken the bathic’s masters. Consequently the then slave populations of what would become sidrigan were bred for mathematical brilliance and a kind of spatial thinking. After the Tutor was driven out of sidrigan, they were occupied by first the twin cities, and then by Ydris. 

The First sidrigati sorcerer was named XXXX, and made his “debut” during the Sidrigati secession wars against Kurasa. It was from him that the current school derived, and most argue that the sidrigan would lack sorcerers entirely without his efforts. The combination of the ydrian adept techniques with the ecstatic missionaries, using the mathematical abilities of the native populace, resulted in a school of sorcery that really isn’t magic (as we’d understand it) so much as telekinesis. It stands somewhere between the intellectually intense Scholastic style and the mystical ecstasy of the NAME. 

## The Naturals
* The Ecstatic training focuses on the multithreading necessary to hold the cants of containment in place at all times. Compared to that, the ritual to “ignite” a soul is a peace of cake. If the ritual fails, 9 times out of 10 its not because the soul failed to light up, but that the monk in question failed to contain it. 
