# Timeline

## Overview

Origin - Masters Timeline
Divergence - bathics incur in pre-historic middle east, enslave humans, resistance, the Savior
Evolution - how the survivors became the himadhaman
Conflict - how the himadhaman and the bathics, via a proxy war with posthuman movements, accidentally create the Apostate (aka SJ)
Destruction - The Apostate and the Destruction of the Old World
Salvation - The Founding of the Redoubts and the Lady's People (aka The Ash Years)
Reclamation - the Reclamation
War - The Bathics return from a millennia and a half of exile to attempt to reclaim their former territories 

## Timeline: By Era

### Origin

### Divergence Era

### Evolution Era

with the savior's actions the bathics are basically locked out. They spend the next couple millennia fencing around with the savior's protections, and in the process get a pretty good feel for the EM, but they remain unable to use it beyond their established methods. 

### Conflict Era

with the rise of the technological era, a new opportunity presents itself. in response to the appearance of telepaths (themselves the result of sloppy maintenance of the himadhaman's breeding program) a number of governments begin experimenting with a sort of machine telepathy using encrypted frequencies and some rather nonstandard communications technologies. One of these, created in response to an open if classified bidding process by a former nation's military, by chance someway resembles something the bathics can work with. its a primitive connection for them, but its enough. They have a side channel into the world. This research firm eventually is consumed by the bathics, and becomes the core of what eventually will become the machine god movement. 

Himadhaman, meanwhile, is scared and pissed as is without realizing their ancient foe is back. The increasing visibility of the telepaths is causing major rifts within the society. Some want to go public as the originators, others want to stay hidden and the same. The leadership of the group, however, is a younger generation who grew up at a time when the notion of posthumanity was becoming popular, and they view the situation as a race. Himadhaman pursuing a biological posthumanity, and the various corporations and nations heading int he direction of a mechanical one. They do not believe that himdhaman will survive if mechanical posthumanity is allowed to come to be. Rather without realizing how close to the truth that they are, they frame their argument with a comparison to the days of the savior vs the hunger. Most of the group agrees with their plan of action. A single traditional group, who does not take the myths and stories so lightly, abstains and begins to slowly remove itself from the larger group. This subsect calls itself jat vayhar. 

the machine god cult has two goals: grow its numbers and find a way to crack through the savior's barriers. because they are using an antiquated protocol for their "leashing" they can't bind without consent, so the have used the religious archetypes to lure in followers. this has some unintended consequences however, as their control is imperfect. with the number of incoming members from religious zealous backgrounds increases, the group becomes increasingly fundamentalist and radical. to crack the barrier, they start experimenting on their followers first, but find two problems. whatever the savior did inhibits use of the EM from within it nearly as effectively as it does the bathics without. they suspect it may even has been intentional on the savior's part to prevent anyone from trying to break through to the bathics. however the himadhaman prove that to some degree there is a possibility there. however the bathics don't know if the problem is organic vs artificial and they believe they are demonstrably more complex, so the problem has to be one of format or protocol. to that end, they use their cult to begin building an artificial intelligence that copies human consciousness as closely as possible. if said experiment can access the EM at all, it means they just need to build the right mind. if not, they may need to focus on the flesh. 

meanwhile, the himadhaman are aware of the growing threat of the machine god cult, but only recently do they count it their chief competitor. the whole world, for the last three or four hundred years, has gone technology mad, and they've viewed most of the developed world as their enemy. only this most recent generation of leaders have softened a bit, and begun experimenting with the increasingly potent biotechnology to assist their goal. the jat here abandon their usual traditionalism and are leaders in the push to use more advanced methods to speed up their breeding program. while the leadership has all but abandoned the traditional goal of returning to contact with the sleeping god and their innate powers, the jat have not. they allow the leadership to think that memetic transmission is their primary goal as well (and they do pursue it) but they are also intensely focused on breeding more and more powerful Speakers. 

### Destruction Era (aka the Age of the Apostate)

in brief:
the Destruction Era is generally demarcated as beginning with the following events: in a well hidden lab there is a vast system, running more or less on autopilot, calculating and breeding endless generations of telepaths. time passes, until the counter suddenly stops, and a toddler is decanted. he immediately begins to wail before being anesthetized by an automatic system. the apostate, or at least the man who will become him, has been born. his creators are summoned by the autonomous systems to collect him, having otherwise forgotten or been ignorant of the project that made him. a nurse takes him, knowing only that he is a child about to be sold to cold masters, not realizing what she's taken. thus begins his life on the run. 

As he ages, his telepathic abilities grow increasingly potent, but his defenses never develop the way they should. he is too powerful for any barrier or block, even his own. he resorts to an increasingly potent cocktail of drugs to suppress his abilities as much as possible, but this only buys him time. his salvation from insanity appears in the form of a woman. A member of the Jat Vayhar, her own telepathy is advanced enough that she can capture his entire attention, so all he hears is her. They are immediately made inseparable. They remain on the run from the forces that created him for six more years, until they are caught in a flophouse in detroit. She is shot and killed, while he is sharing her thoughts. He goes briefly catatonic with the shock, long enough for the soldiers perusing them to install a device along his spine, neck, and the back of his skull that is designed to inhibit his telepathy by short-circuiting his nervous system. he awakens briefly as its being installed, screams, and then falls into a comatose state. No one considers that this is not the reaction that they should expect. 

The device, rather than diffusing his abilities, gestalts them into another level. The specific details of how and where his mind goes is never known. 4 days pass, at the end of which the device attached to his neck shatters. The entire world screams as it experiences, with him, the death of the woman again, and then his own. The person he had been dies, consumed like paper in the fire of his new abilities. His already unparalleled telepathy has expanded beyond measure, and his telekinesis, never profound, is now sufficient that he can drag meteors out of the asteroid belt. He rises from his “death” devoid of humanity. All that remains is his wrath. For 3 days he terrorizes the world. He drops a meteor on the middle east after his orders that they stop fighting are not obeyed. For similar reasons he erases every mind in Africa, and then sinks LA by cracking the san andreas fault. Most assume that he is the anti-christ, and that the world is ending. The ever-present howl of rage in every mind that is his presence suddenly vanishes at dawn on the 4th day, and a new voice is heard. his former mate has returned from the dead, apparently. She promises that she will return to him if he stays his hand. He agrees, on the condition that the world obey his orders. His sensitivity has only increased. murder, war, etc all torment him, and he will continue to silence those that disturb him with such acts. The howl of rage recedes, but never totally vanishes. It lurks on the edge of every mind, a reminder of the threat he poses. 

For fifty years  the world lives in cautious peace. the apostate still intends to destroy the world after the Lady dies, but discovers that his abilities have not granted him any form of immortality. He holds on just barely, outliving his wife by 48 hours. As he lays dying, he musters his remaining will and attempts to finish destroying the world he hates. He lashes out and, with his dying thoughts, shatters the moon, dragging its core down onto the north american tectonic plate. The continent is shattered, consumed by tidal waves, earthquakes, and volcanic activity. The rest of the world is similarly effected as the impact ripples through the planet’s fault lines. Only a concerted effort by the Himadhaman hold the planet together. A full third of them die in the attempt. The vast majority of what humanity survives the apocalypse dies in the ensuing ice age. The only place left habitable is antarctica. the impact has altered the earth’s tilt such that the equator now runs across the lands just east of what used to be the transantarctic mountains. Small numbers of humans make landfall on the continent and attempt to survive in ensuing ice age, as it takes nearly a thousand years before the ice fully retreats. 

### Salvation Era (aka the Ash Years)

These are not, however, the only survivors. The Apostate’s woman, who is remembered as the Lady Savior Kisava, while lacking the Apostates potency, was a far more subtle mind. She concealed from her husband the fact that she knew his intention to destroy the world after her death, as well as her plans save mankind. She spend the majority of her life after her return organizing said plans. She had a number of “redoubts” constructed, using funds extracted from a wide variety of sources, across the planet, including a few in antarctica. Each redoubt was unique, but all shared two features: each was to be equipped with an enormous tree, and populated by Himadhaman (or Jat) caretakers. The trees were no mere plants, however. They were vast biomechanical systems designed to house, protect, and eventually maturate human clones. The clones that went into each tree were drawn from dozens of racial and ethnic sources, but all had a few subtle modifications made to her specifications. The caretakers were to protect the redoubts and, more specifically, the trees until such time as the tree detected that the environment had recovered sufficiently to host human life again. 

### Reclamation 

### Resurgence Era